Alan Turing (1912-1954) Invented the Turing machine laying the theoretical foundation for computation and artificial intelligence.
Frank Rosenblatt (1928-1971) Developed the perceptron a fundamental concept in neural network theory.
John McCarthy (1927-2011) Coined the term "artificial intelligence" and contributed to the development of the Lisp programming language. 
Marvin Minsky (1927-2016) Cofounder of the MIT AI Laboratory and a key figure in the development of artificial neural networks.
John Hopfield (born 1933)Introduced the Hopfield network a form of recurrent neural network important for associative memory.
Yoshua Bengio (born 1964) Corecipient of the Turing Award for his contributions to deep learning particularly for his work on neural networks.
Geoffrey Hinton (born 1947) Pioneered backpropagation algorithms and made significant contributions to the development of deep learning.
Andrew Ng (born 1976) Cofounder of Google Brain contributed to the development of online education in machine learning and worked on deep learning.
Yann LeCun (born 1960) Developed convolutional neural networks (CNNs) and made significant contributions to computer vision.
Juergen Schmidhuber (born 1963) Pioneered the use of neural networks in reinforcement learning and developed the long shortterm memory (LSTM) network.
Vladimir Vapnik (born 1936) Codeveloped the Support Vector Machine (SVM) a powerful algorithm for classification and regression.
David Haussler (born 1953) Developed algorithms for bioinformatics and contributed to the development of machine learning methods for genomics.
FeiFei Li (born 1976) Led research in computer vision cofounded AI4ALL to promote diversity in AI and worked on the ImageNet project.
Daphne Koller (born 1968) Cofounder of Coursera made contributions to probabilistic graphical models and machine learning for biology.
Cynthia Breazeal (born 1967) Pioneer in social robotics developed the social robot Kismet and contributed to the field of affective computing.
Richard Sutton (born 1962) Coauthor of the book "Reinforcement Learning An Introduction" a key resource in the field of reinforcement learning.
Michael Jordan (born 1956) Developed the concept of "ensemble learning" and contributed to probabilistic graphical models.
Sebastian Thrun (born 1967) Cofounded Google X and led the development of Google's selfdriving car. Also a pioneer in online education for machine learning.
Christopher Bishop (born 1959) Author of the book "Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning" and contributed to the development of Bayesian neural networks.
Tom Mitchell (born 1951) Worked on the development of the first successful practical autonomous vehicle known as Navlab.
Ray Kurzweil (born 1948) Known for his work on optical character recognition (OCR) and speech recognition contributing to the field of natural language processing.
Leon Bottou (born 1962) Contributed to the development of stochastic gradient descent algorithms a key optimization technique in machine learning.
Vapnik–Chervonenkis theory (Vladimir Vapnik and Alexey Chervonenkis) Developed the statistical learning theory which laid the foundation for support vector machines (SVM).
Michael I. Jordan (born 1956) Coined the term "variational methods for graphical models" and made significant contributions to machine learning theory.
Peter Norvig (born 1956) Director of Research at Google coauthored "Artificial Intelligence A Modern Approach" a widely used textbook.
Jitendra Malik (born 1960) Made contributions to computer vision image segmentation and object recognition.
David Silver Codeveloped AlphaGo an artificial intelligence program that defeated a world champion Go player.
Demis Hassabis (born 1976)Cofounder of DeepMind a company known for advancements in deep learning and AI research.
Ian Goodfellow (born 1985) Coauthored the seminal paper on Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs) a breakthrough in generative models.
Ruslan Salakhutdinov (born 1977) Contributed to deep learning and probabilistic graphical models particularly in the field of unsupervised learning.